---
title: 'Who we are'
date: Sun, 22 Jul 2018 20:20:50 +0000
draft: false
---

### **[🇮🇹 Versione italiana](http://fablabromagna.org/blog/chi-siamo/)**

FabLab Romagna (**FLR**) is a **Associazione di Promozione Sociale** with the aim to find contact points among students, makers and companies and  to promote creativity . **It is the first FabLab born in the Italian public school**, the result of a collaboration between teachers of the ITT "Blaise Pascal" in  Cesena and the ITIG "Belluzzi - da Vinci" in Rimini. They wanted to exploit the skills gained in a career of teaching in a concrete and useful thing for the professional growth of their students. Now also   **ITIS "G. Marconi" - Forlì** and a  working group of **Bagno di Romagna** are part of  FLR**.** The **Comprehensive Institute n. 9 of Bologna** ( kindergarten, primary and secondary schools in the same organization) is joining to FLR. FabLab Romagna is formed with  laboratories called makerspaces, born from the agreements stipulated with the respective schools or Municipalities. The agreements with other schools that want to apply this model, however, are always open. The three current laboratories are located in Cesena, Rimini and Forlì and have digital production equipment such as 3D printers, laser cutters, CNC machines, computers, microcontroller boards, but also lathes and electronic devices to create printed circuits. There are many technological tools  in these significant technical institutes of the Romagna area. These resources are available to students and teachers of the school but also to external persons for the realization of their projects. The main activities are concentrated in the production of software and in the creation of circuits for everyone's projects, in the use and design of 3D printers, in the design and printing of 3D objects using both PLA and ABS. Some examples of projects completed in FabLab Romagna are: Robot, Home Automation System, LED Cube, but also different applications for the Internet of Things (IoT) and much more. All this in an Open Source, Creative Commons sharing of ideas, skills and mutual aid. Fablab Romagna reverses the roles between teacher and student by creating new ways of mutual exchange of skills to achieve a common goal in a perspective more similar to a development team. FabLab Romagna adopts **"The Fab Charter" of the MIT** (Massachusetts Institute of Technology). FLR moves inside the school and out of the school, activating synergistic contacts essential for the growth of  school and society. Exemplification: **Aster - Mak-ER**: FLR is co-founder with the main regional fablabs with which it collaborates. **Maker Faire**: European (Rome) and National (Trieste - Rimini).  At the first edition of the RBMMF, FLR participated directly in the organization and management of the same. In this context, a collaboration was made with MakeRN and with Blunautilus. FLR activated a collaborative project between FLR and Cesena Lab, an incubator and business accelerator, linked to the university and the Municipality of Cesena. **MAMP Project (Montessori Additive Manufacturing Project)** FLR for AS 2016-2017 and AS 2017-2018 with **Rotary Club Cesena** and **Rotary International**: project that promotes the use of latest generation equipment and a large series of training courses aimed to teachers, students and makers. The cooperation with **Confartigianato Cesena**: contact with the craft world and economic support given to FLR. FLR  with Confartigianato are training institutions for the management of the **ASL (Alternanza Scuola Lavoro)** of high schools in the Romagna area. A collaboration is active with **Confindustria Romagna** and several 3D printing courses have been opened. Maurizio Conti, FLR vice-president and Digital Animator in ITTS Belluzzi - da Vinci,  has been posted to the Regional School Office at the **Servizio Marconi TSI** and he’s trainer of newly appointed teachers. FLR  takes part and collaborates as an official contributor to the event to  the preparation of the **School Maker Day** in **Bologna**. FLR took part in the **COGITO Project** in  the **Carducci Primary School in  Cesena**: carried out in collaboration with teachers of the 3 ° Circolo Didattico school, university professors (Prof. Alessandro Ricci and Angelo Croatti, DISI, University of Bologna, Cesena), Laura Tarsitano (referent Criad Coding ), ITT Pascal Cesena students. He has activated collaborations with the **Carducci school** (specifically at the new Li2lab environment), with the **Second Degree Secondary School "Viale della Resistenza"** in Cesena and **ITT Pascal Cesena**, to create school-work alternation courses. **Opening weekly afternoon Makerspace Rimini, Cesena and Forlì** for training activities with boys and girls or outdoor presentations (visitors, external schools, etc.). Collaboration with **creative school activities** or innovative teaching for the realization of projects.